[NARRATOR]
Refugees.
One of the most difficult
challenges facing
modern society.
Persecution, strife,
and violence.
These are just a few reasons
why people are forced
to flee the country
where they were born.
In order to survive, they
escape to other nations.
Some by foot, others by boat.
Here in the
Kingdom of Friedonia,
the problem is very
much the same.
There is a refugee camp
located just outside the walls
of the royal capital of Parnam.
Within it are just under
a thousand people.
Humans, elves,
beastmen, dwarves.
Most have one thing in common:
they were driven from their
lands by the expansion
of the Demon Lord's Domain.
However, compared
to other refugees,
those in the Kingdom of
Friedonia were more fortunate.
Elsewhere, circumstances
for refugees
are considerably harsher.
There are nations bordering
the Demon Lord's Domain
where refugees are
forcibly conscripted
and sent to fight
on the front lines.
Or, under the guise
of protecting them,
they were employed as
cheap labor and exploited
to the point of slavery.
Now that domestic affairs
had become settled
to some degree,
Souma had finally resolved to
deal with this matter head-on.
That's a rather large tent.
Not so much a tent.
More like a Mongolian ger.
It's not important.
The chief's expecting us.
Let's meet him.
[JIRUKOMA] Your Majesty,
Great King of Friedonia,
thank you for visiting with us.
[SOUMA] First off, let's skip
this whole "Great King"
business.
Yes, as you wish.
My name is Jirukoma.
I have been put in charge
of this refugee camp.
Sitting here at my
side is my sister.
My name's Komain.
It is a pleasure, sire.
And my name is Souma Kazuya.
Friedonia's king.
I understand you helped
rescue some members
of the settlement earlier.
I would like to offer
my sincerest thanks.
[SOUMA] It was the
adventurers working security
that saved them.
You can thank them if you wish.
I came here for another reason,
regarding a matter
that needs resolving.
I'm here to help you
make an informed choice.
My messengers told
you your options,
and now you must decide which.
You can't!
Stop, Komain!
I will speak my mind!
Our words will determine
the course of action
for everyone residing
here in this camp.
We must remain calm.
I'll hold my tongue, then.
Souma.
I think it's time you explained
to me what's going on.
You're right.
The refugee crisis has
gone on far too long.
We need to find a resolution.
So I asked them
to make a decision.
Decide what?
Become subjects of
the kingdom and forsake
their home or tear down camp
and leave this country.
I know what you want.
Return to your homelands,
which are now
the Demon Lord's Domain,
where you'll resume
your old way of life.
But presently, unless we
drive away the monsters,
that's impossible.
Nor can anyone tell
when that will be possible.
Just what do you intend
on doing in the meantime?
Remain here in a strange,
foreign land hoping
that you'll get the
chance to return,
living in limbo until then?
We can't have you
staying here unofficially.
Under any other circumstances,
hunting and gathering
without permission
would be illegal.
If these actions are
allowed to continue,
I guarantee you'll incur the
wrath of the kingdom's people.
But we have all been
tolerant of them
for this long,
and even supported them.
Yes, that's my point.
The kingdom has several
problems to deal with,
so I chose to stay on the
same course as Albert.
But this, it's an issue
I can no longer simply
leave unaddressed.
Well, isn't that a bit...
This land of ours, think of
it like a giant person.
It is so easy for them to love
those who love them in return,
but when a group
doesn't reciprocate,
it's more difficult.
If you insist on remaining
committed to your homelands
and feel no sense of
belonging to the kingdom...
Well, then.
I'm afraid I will
have to expel you.
All that we want is to
return to where we were
forced out.
And I have no objection
if that sentiment
remains within your hearts.
If the situation changes, and
you are able to return back,
then you are free
to venture home.
But as long as you
reside in this country.
I need you to feel
like you belong here.
You have no idea what
we've gone through!
Don't, Komain!
No, Brother.
Enough. I will speak.
You are the king over this
nation and yet you still
have your own country!
Sire. You don't know
what it's like to be torn
from your home and have to--
Yes, I do.
You must have heard.
How I was summoned to this world
from my own without any say?
I have no way of going back.
Souma.
Still.
I have Liscia and the others.
Those by my side, supporting me.
People who genuinely
care about me.
I didn't want to let them down,
so I worked on end.
And then eventually,
I realized I felt as though
I belonged here, too.
If I'd lost this country,
I probably would've
grieved as much as I did
losing my original home.
The fact is, you might
not be accepted right away.
But you can't move
forward if you refuse
to take action.
And just how accepting
will you be?
The same as the
Gran Chaos Empire?
Princess. I'm confused.
The empire offers refugees land,
the undeveloped parcels
within their country.
And If they settle it,
then it can be recognized
as their provisional residence.
Oh, yeah? And what's the catch?
If they can be self-sufficient,
they aren't a drain
on the empire's coffers.
And if they are able to return
to the northern territory later,
the land that they had just
cleared will remain behind.
Either way, the
empire loses nothing.
Jirukoma.
I'm sorry, but we can't
implement the same policy
as their country.
Why not?
Because it's dangerous.
Dangerous? How so?
You clear the land,
pour your blood,
sweat, and tears into it.
If so, you'd consider it
as your own, correct?
For the generation that
still wants to go home,
that's fine.
But what about
the next one, after?
Ask yourself this: When
they're born on that land
without any context of
their parents' country,
will they view it as
a temporary lease,
or something more important?
I'm curious, are you suggesting
that the empire's policy
is just wrong?
I'm not.
We just differ in our thinking.
Maria chose that policy
because she believed
it was the best, whereas
I fear for the worst,
and won't take
the same approach.
And that's all there is.
If that's your stance,
I'd like to know just what your
grand solution could be.
Giving up returning to our
homeland and become subjects
of the kingdom without
any land for clearing
or will we be thrown out?
Just what exactly is it
that you expect us to do?
Master Owen.
--Sire?
--Show them.
As you command, my lord.
[SOUMA] This is Venetinova,
a gulf coast city we're
currently building.
The residential and commercial
districts are constructed,
and we've established a
trading port at this point.
Later, we'll add even more
facilities and develop it
into a city that will be on
the cutting edge of culture
and life.
As for the refugees,
I'm thinking of letting them
take up residence here.
Become a resident of this
country and you will have
a home.
There're plenty of jobs, too.
Don't believe me, just
ask the mystic wolves.
They run distilleries in Parnam.
I guarantee if you
become citizens,
as long as you work hard,
you will never go hungry
or cold.
[overlapping chatter]
What are you talking
about, Brother?
He is pretty much
calling us strays
and throwing us scraps to
try and make us roll over!
Komain.
What his Majesty is offering
us is an actual chance
to establish roots here.
So that's it then?
Are we just gonna give up
on ever going back home?
Don't tell me that doesn't
bother you at all!
I can't blame you for
having differing opinions.
After looking at
my own proposal,
on one hand, it's enticing.
While on the other hand,
I could see how it might seem
quite cruel.
But this is the most I can
do for you right now.
Everything else comes
down to your decision.
There are those residing
here who will insist on
returning to their homelands,
no matter what.
Just like Komain, right?
Oh, no.
My sister, she is open-minded.
What she said before
was for all the others.
She wishes to represent all
voices on the settlement.
Despite her own views.
B-Big brother...
It's true, is it not?
When you had said
it was terrible,
you were just speaking on
behalf of those who think that.
Because you feel
the pain of others.
Your Majesty, we thank you,
but I cannot make
this decision on my own.
I would like to gather the
members of the settlement
before giving you an answer.
I am here to help
you reach a decision,
as I've mentioned.
Yes, I understand.
If possible, I'd like to
convince as many people
in the settlement as I can
to accept the hand
Your Majesty has
generously extended.
Even if it does mean
dividing all of the refugees.
[SOUMA]
"Dividing the refugees."
In other words, accept
the offer or be ostracized
even more than you already are.
There isn't much time.
You can spend time
recruiting residents,
but the seasons don't
wait for anyone.
You speak the truth.
Winter is coming.
If we don't prepare,
our people could freeze.
But please, give us
some more time.
Good.
I heard that you
were in here, Hilde.
Brad, you creep!
Thanks for running off
and leaving me to handle
all your lectures!
Hey, what do you
think you're doing?
You can air your
grievances a bit later.
I need your help now.
It's urgent.
Who's the patient?
There's a woman.
Her water has just broken.
It's the baby's position.
It's facing the wrong way,
with its head at the
top of the uterus.
That's a problem.
Transverse presentations
are very rare.
The midwife is at
a total loss, as well.
Typically in these scenarios,
only the mother or
the child can survive.
It'll be hard to save
both of them.
All right.
We'll just have to
cut her open then.
Can you do it?
I understand the survival
rate for mothers
is less than 20%.
The reason for it being so low
should be fairly obvious.
Oh? Why is that?
The ones who operated
weren't as smart as us.
You make the
incredible sound simple.
It's the truth.
Or more precisely,
because they lacked my skills,
as well as your three-eye
knowledge of pathogens.
I can bring the survival
rate up to 80% alone.
Hilde, if you're at my side,
keeping things sanitary,
together we can bring
the survival rate up
to nearly 100%.
Dammit, how can
I argue with that?
Well, King, you heard
what the man said:
we've got an emergency.
I hate asking, but I need
you and your people's help
right now.
[SOUMA]
Of course. You'll have it.
I gave Hakuya my report of
the incident, Master Souma.
Oh, good!
You arrived just in time
to help us, Dragonewt girl.
Wait. Help you with what?
Go to the medical lab in
the capital and bring me
my instruments and drugs
right here on the double.
[CARLA]
Uh...
This is an emergency.
Do exactly as she tells you.
The king just gave you an order.
Now listen.
Ask for Hilde's black bag,
the researchers
will know what
you're talking about.
I-- Yes, I understand!
You, refugee leader.
I would like to
borrow your tent.
For this procedure, we need the
most sanitary venue possible.
I have no objections
if it will help you.
We're also going to
need blood transfusions,
so gather up as many
refugees as you can.
[JIRUKOMA]
Understood.
--As for you, King...
--Uh, yeah?
You know all about hygiene
where you come from, correct?
Explain the concept
to the leader here
and clean up this area
as much as you can.
You got it.
Well, let's start. Ready?
Right.
Lead the way, Majesty.
Wait. Please allow me
to help out, too.
All right, tell me everything
about the patient's
symptoms, Brad.
We need lots of boiled water.
Once over 100 degrees,
it'll kill most pathogens.
In order for this to
succeed, her tools need
to be sterilized!
I've heard about opening
a pregnant woman's belly,
but is it safe?
Oh, yes, without a doubt.
Cesarean sections are common
for difficult deliveries,
at least where I come from.
Your old home always sounds
like an amazing place, Souma.
I'm sure those two can pull
off a similar procedure.
They're both pros.
But then, we never had
access to light magic
in my world,
so the comparison
isn't so simple.
Be that as it may,
I can't say I'm happy
about being stuck outside
while Carla's helping them.
Jirukoma.
Hilde and Brad
are skilled doctors.
I'm sure both mother
and baby will survive.
So I want to bring this up.
Yes, what is it?
When the child's born,
it'll be in the kingdom.
Not in their forefather's land.
They will grow up here
and see it as home.
Forcing newborns
to live as exiles
from a lost nation is...
There's no need to say any more.
Big Brother.
Listen, I have decided
what needs to be done.
[baby crying]
The baby is...
It's a healthy... boy.
Oh!
Hope for the future has been
brought into this world!
How is the mother?
The operation was a success.
Both mother and child are fine.
[LISCIA]
Carla!
Come on, you have got
to keep it together!
Please stand up!
Great Sky Sun
who watches over us.
For giving hope
to this settlement,
we humbly offer our gratitude.
Spirits of our ancestors,
who soar as elk in heaven,
please watch over this child
now, and for evermore.
I'm so glad.
There aren't enough
words to thank you,
Your Majesty.
Any you have should
be directed to them.
I'm stepping down as
leader of the settlement.
--Komain will take over.
--Huh?
Are you saying that you're
going to leave us, Brother?
Good question.
What's your plan?
The people of this settlement.
I know they are tired
of living like nomads.
I'm certain, if they can make
this country their home,
it would be a wonderful
chance for them.
And yet...
I know there are hardliners
who will never give up
on going home.
That's why I will be heading
back north along with them.
I'll be keeping up
the fight for our nation
on the front lines.
Biding time until we
can take back our land.
Hold on a second!
You can't just run off when
the settlement needs you!
Don't forget.
I said His Majesty's proposal
was cruel, didn't I?
I'm going north with you!
You can't.
You declined it out of
consideration for the others,
despite what you actually felt.
That heart of yours, it makes
you a better mediator than me.
There's a part of me,
some piece that can never
give up the thought
of going home.
When I was made chief,
I pushed my feelings aside
and had to keep them
buried in my heart until now.
Big Brother.
Komain.
It is for the best.
His Majesty said if the
people of this settlement
love this country,
then he will be accepting them
as subjects of the kingdom.
My role has come
to an end and I can let
my feelings soar now.
Honestly, don't make
your sister cry, you jerk.
I don't know what else to say.
Please look over Komain
and all of the others.
I can promise you this:
I'll handle the paperwork.
If there's anything that
can truly protect them,
it's the kingdom itself.
All right.
In that case, please make
sure the kingdom endures.
I will.
Babies smell so lovely!
He's not strong enough
to hold his head up yet.
Careful holding him.
How are you feeling?
[MOTHER A] Fairly stable after
the operation, thank goodness.
And my milk supply is good,
so I am able to nurse
him until he's full.
I'm relieved to hear that.
When you said you were
splitting her belly open,
I was nervous at first.
Back where I'm from,
Cesarean sections have a
very high rate of success.
You little--
Don't make it sound so simple!
How would you like
to be cut open,
even if it's 100% successful?
Did you see the infant?
Covered in blood and vernix?
What about all the blood
spilled on the floor,
and how much blood she
needed to have pumped back
into her?
Carla.
It doesn't matter how much
magic and medicine is used--
women still risk their
lives giving birth!
[baby crying]
There, there, please,
don't cry, little one.
That's probably my cue
to give him back.
I'm sorry.
You're right.
I treated the
subject too lightly.
My apologies to you, too.
Don't be ridiculous.
Without your help, I most
likely would not be here
holding my baby now.
If anyone should be bowing
their head in here,
it ought to be me.
As a man, it doesn't
affect me the same.
I wish I could have
been of some use.
In that case, I'd be
honored if you were
my son's godfather.
[SOUMA]
Huh? Who? Me?
Yes.
If Your Majesty were
to choose his name,
I'm sure this land would
provide him with good fortune
and health in return.
I'm honored, but you're
sure it should be me?
Even a man should
be able to handle that.
Well, all right.
A name, huh? Uh...
I've got it.
What about "Fuku"?
Back in my home world,
it means "happiness."
"Fuku."
Sound good?
I don't know how to thank you.
With such a wonderful
name bestowed on him,
no doubt he will become
as tall and handsome
as an elk's antlers.
Grow up to be
strong, little one.
Hi, Fuku!
[CARLA]
Boo!
[baby cooing]
Huh? What's wrong?
Other people's babies are cute,
but when they're your own,
they must be even more adorable.
Yeah, I suppose so.
Souma, um, how about
we start trying?
Huh? You mean, like...
Oh. Yeah. Uh...
Well, actually, could we
wait a little while longer?
Come on!
You're still not ready?
A-hem.
If you two don't mind,
save that talk for later.
Preferably when
I am very far away.